# PyCitySchools Data Trends

A few key findings from the PyCitySchools data analysis:

When comparing the top 5 performing schools (by % overall passing) to the bottom 5 performing schools (by % overall passing), it is possible to also compare the per student budget for each of the schools in these 2 major groupings. Wilson High School which has the lowest per student budget ($578) of all schools ranks in the top 5 schools (by % overall passing) in the district whereas Huang High School which has the highest per student budget ($655) ranks among the bottom 5 schools (by % overall passing). The budget difference between them is less than $100, which leads me to want to further investigate the relationship between per student budget and the percent of students passing overall. When analyzing the Scores by School Spending data frame, the trend between spending per student and percent of student passing overall becomes more apparent. The 15 schools are pretty evenly split between the 4 spending ranges, however, the difference in percent overall passing decreases as the spending range(per student) increases. In fact, the difference in percent overall passing between the schools that spend less than $585 schools (90.37%) and the schools that spend $645-680 per student (53.53%) is approximately 36.84 percent (based on rounded values). Further statistical analysis would need to be performed to confirm the significance of this negative correlation. Other plausible contributing factors such as teacher experience, student socieconomic status, and student demographic makeup for each school should also be further investigated.

When analyzing the Scores by School Type dataframe another trend is uncovered. Again, the 15 schools are almost evenly split between the two groups: charter (8 schools) and district (7 schools). However, charter schools have a higher percentage of students passing overall than district schools. The difference in percent overall passing between charter schools (90.43%) and district schoools (53.67%) is 36.76 percent. Further statistical analysis would need to be performed to determine the significance of the relationship between each of the variables and their percent overall passing. Other plausible contributing factors such as teacher experience, student socieconomic status, and student demographic makeup for each school should also be further investigated.


